i just wanted to drop a content warning
here as both physical
and psychological abuse are discussed in
this video
i also wanted to thank chaos opus studio
who composed the score in this video
they're also an animal welfare charity
that raises money through the creation
of lgbt
plus media including an upcoming
animated adaptation of killing stalking
you can check them out at the link in
the description
and you know like share and subscribe
and sign up for my patreon for monthly
exclusives like early access
audio commentaries behind the scenes
featurettes and movie watch along
parties
alright now on with the show
so if you're anything like i was circa
six weeks ago
you're probably thinking what the hell
is killing stalking
i too was one so naive you see the day i
released the power couple video i got an
emergency call to come home because my
mom was in the hospital
home for me is a five-hour drive away so
instead of premiering the video as
planned i just
set it to live jumped in my car and
drove
my mom pulled through thank god but it
was pretty touch and go
for a while so as i waited in the
hospital and in my hotel room
i started checking the comments on the
power couple video
lots of love which i definitely needed
right then
but there were also a few people
absolutely
haranguing me because they thought the
couple in the video's thumbnail wasn't
wiccan and hulkling from marvel comics
the subject of the video
but yoon bom and songwo and they were
absolutely furious
that i would have the gall to portray
them in any kind of positive light
and all i could think was who the hell
are you in bomb and song woah
if i wasn't already in such an emotional
state i would have
ignored the comments as simply being
misinformed
but they were calling me out on a bad
day so i decided
i'd better do some research so i used
the hotel's
honestly shockingly good wi-fi to hop
onto the good old google.com and look up
songwoo and yoon bom this is when i came
across the korean web comic
killing stalking and right below that in
the google search in the people also ask
section
was the question does song songwoo love
yoon bom
oh they're gay let's investigate
now because i'm a good law-abiding
citizen who would
nev ever ever pirate something
i hunted around online for the books of
killing stalking which i was seeing
described as a psychological romance
romantic thriller and dark romance
but try as i might no online bookstore
would sell me an english version of the
comic
french spanish italian german polish and
korean versions were plentiful
and even available with prime shipping
but
nothing in english fine
i'll do the bad thing and read it online
well [ __ ] so because i had nothing
better to do than
sit in hospital rooms and hotel rooms i
read the whole thing in two or three
days
all 67 issues multiple special issues
holiday issues and author notes
and it was good a dark psychological
thriller about loneliness
trauma and severe abuse closer to a
horror novel than a thriller right in my
wheelhouse
but then i thought back to how i'd seen
it described online
dark yes psychological yes thriller
yes a romance
it had always been described as a
romance
who the hell was describing this as a
according to the internet um
a lot of people which suddenly i
understood why some commenters were so
angry that they thought i'd used an
image
of this couple and put power couple
beside it
and because i'm never one to turn down
making a mistake i decided to dive deep
into the killing stalking fandom which
has a surprisingly large presence on
tiktok
personally i'd love the series it was
something akin to jillian flynn novels
stories about extremely flawed
emotionally broken people
but what i saw online was a community
obsessed with the romance
between the two lead characters the
emotionally stunted yoon bomb
and the serial killer he's infatuated
with songwo
now before we talk about why looking at
their relationship as anything even
close to a romance is wrong let's go
over the plot of the series
so that you know what i'm talking about
[Music]
yoon bom is a depressed 20-something
who's had a pretty hard life
having lost his parents at a young age
he's been brought up by his grandmother
and abusive uncle
he was drafted into the korean military
military services compulsory in south
korea
and despite his frail body and
psychological instability
he's still forced to serve while in
training camp
he becomes the target of other recruits
who accuse him of being gay and make fun
of him for looking like a girl
in one such altercation his attackers
are just about to rape him
when he's rescued by another recruit a
handsome young man a few years his
junior
songwo ever since then yoon bomb has
become
infatuated with songwoo after both
completed their term of duty he began
following him around finding out where
he lived
and even figuring out the security code
to his house based on which buttons
looked to be pushed the most
yoonbom essentially becomes the stocking
in killing stalking one day he manages
to actually get into the house
though he's almost thwarted by a police
drive-by once inside the house he's
almost
euphoric to be in sangwo's private space
he has a look around but starts to hear
noises from the basement
he goes down partially hoping to find
songwo but is shocked
to find a mutilated young woman tied up
and screaming for help
but when he takes off her blindfold she
screams for him to stay away
bomb hasn't noticed that seongwo has
snuck up behind him
having been told that someone was in his
house by the police outside
one of those officers by the way
believes that seongwoo killed his own
parents but we'll get to that later
so songwoo smashes bomb over the head
with a bat
he tries to escape but can't get past
the much larger song wow and so
in an act of panic he professes his love
for him
telling him that he's been in love with
him for years ever since the military
songwo seems to calm down with this and
even invites him upstairs
when yoon bomb asks if he's been
forgiven for breaking into his house
sangwo says yes
but not with his legs in that state
eventually destroying bomb's ankles with
a sledgehammer
and here in this dark basement guest
starring a soon-to-be corpse
is where the love story of songwoo and
yoon bomb begins
it's not problematic at all but when bum
wakes up now chained next to the girl
who is now dead by the way songwo
confesses that although he kills women
on the regular he hasn't killed a man
since his father
he starts force-feeding yoon bomb some
sort of porridge gruel before leaning in
and kissing him and bomb instead of
fearing for his life which would
you know be understandable in the
situation wonders to himself
does this mean we're dating
so after an unspecified amount of time
chained up in the basement assuming
weeks
songwood decides it's time to bathe bomb
bath bomb to wash him
once he's all clean and now dressed in
girl's clothing
songwoo tells him that he's going to let
him live under two conditions
he never passes the threshold of the
stairs at the house entrance
and he has to do all the cooking
cleaning and other housework
essentially bomb under pain of death is
made into songwoo's mother
but bomb needs to eat off of a plate on
the floor
presumably because sangwo doesn't want
to humanize him too much
and sangwo watches him like a hawk even
when he's on the floor eating
just waiting for him to make a mistake
any mistake
so that he can physically assault him
and he does
on multiple occasions no offense is too
slight to bring on the wrath of songwoo
eventually song woah with science bummed
the task of organizing a collection of
shelves in the storage room
while doing so bum finds a bottle of rat
poison
and gets the idea to put it into sango's
food he'll be fine because
song won't ever lets him eat at the
table let alone the same food as him
but not that night no sangwo invites him
up to the big boy table
and bomb is forced to eat first which
makes him violently ill
later that night when bomb is done
throwing his guts up seong-wo actually
lays him down on his own bed
and here we discover that song was
father was incredibly abusive
particularly to his mother
and would force the two of them to eat
off of the floor
just like he was making bomb do but just
in case you thought the author was
humanizing songwoo in some way
he then follows up his confession by
telling bomb that he hates people like
him
people who are always complaining about
their lot in life
that he has no sympathy for broken
people
that they're useless but for one thing
and then we find out what that one thing
is with an insanely awkward sex scene
that is despite what many fans think
rape the power dynamic between the two
is too vast
song wow has far too much control over
bomb for to not be rape
sorry shippers this isn't a loving sex
scene it is sexual assault where the
aggressor is a serial killer and the
victim is psychologically underdeveloped
this is not romantic
anyway bum continues to do everything
he's told creating a bond of trust with
songwoo
leading to songwoo one day saying that
he needs to go out for a little while
bomb immediately decides this is the
time for him to make his escape
he changes his clothes he passes the
threshold and approaches the door
but then he stops and starts thinking
yes life with song wo is pretty terrible
but he hasn't been so bad since they had
sex
not nice by any means but not terrible
but if bomb escapes and goes home he'll
be left at the mercy of his abusive
uncle who
we've now discovered has been raping
bomb since he was a child
but at least then he'd have a modicum of
freedom
and so he opens the door smelling fresh
air for the first time in months
but sitting on the stoop waiting for him
is songwoo
this was a test you see a test that bomb
has failed
and so songwa assaults him leaving him a
bloody mess in the street all the while
laughing and yelling
somebody save him but nobody comes
this area is mostly deserted it's a bad
area of town
bomb can yell and yell but no one will
save him
songwoo takes him back into the house
throws him back into the basement
and tortures him in a scene that would
feel at home in saw
now as i mentioned earlier one of the
police officers we met in the first
issue has been looking into sangwo
because he's thoroughly convinced that
he killed his parents
the details around their deaths are just
too sketchy this has been
running throughout the series by the way
he eventually decides it's time to
investigate sangwo's house and does a
walk through
he looks everywhere but doesn't find any
evidence of foul play
he also doesn't find bomb which song
won't notices
once the officer leaves still very
suspicious songwell flies into a fit of
rage
convinced that bomb used this
opportunity to flee
he searches the house the basement
outside and he can't find him anywhere
but once back in the house he finds bomb
on the floor
he's been hiding from the cop he grabs
him you're in tears
saying they're going to be together
forever in fact songwoo decides it's
time to win bomb over
so he gives him some crutches since
bomb's ankles are still wrecked
and takes him shopping for new clothes
at one point bomb is actually alone in
the store
this is a public mall he's got the
chance to escape
he can approach a security guard he can
call 9-1-1 this
is his chance
but instead he starts to panic
and looks for songwoo instead stop
okay that's enough synopsis sizing for
now we need to talk about
stockholm syndrome this term is thrown
around a lot
and most cops and even psychologists
question
its validity whether or not it even
exists but
in my opinion killing stalking is a
textbook case
of stockholm syndrome in theory at least
the term originates from a bank robbery
in stockholm sweden in 1973.
john eric olsen took four employees
hostage during the robbery
and held them captive for six days in
one of the bank's vaults
when finally released none of the
captives would testify against olson
instead they began raising money for his
defense fund
their sudden connection with the captor
became popularly known as
stockholm syndrome the symptoms of which
are
perceiving kindness or compassion from
the captor or abuser
developing positive feelings toward the
individual or group holding you captive
or abusing you
adopting the same goals world view and
ideology as your captor or abusers
feeling
pity toward those abusing you refusing
to leave them even when given the
opportunity to escape
having negative perceptions towards
police family friends and
anyone else who may try to help you
escape the situation
and refusing to assist police and
government authorities in prosecuting
the perpetrators of abuse or kidnapping
people like to throw around this
diagnosis for a lot of things
like disney's beauty and the beast where
it 100 percent is
not applicable but here it 100 percent
is yoonbomb hits every single one of the
diagnostic triggers for
stockholm syndrome he feels songwoo is
being compassionate toward him when he
so much as
lets him eat he not only develops
positive feelings for song wo but
fulon falls in love with him at least he
believes he does
he helps songwoo to commit murders and
even dispose of bodies
he feels pity for songwoo after finding
out about his abusive childhood
he eventually won't run away given the
chance sure his first attempt failed
but what about in the mall and multiple
other instances during the series
he's suspicious of the police officer
trying to help him
and finally he refuses to assist the
police when given the opportunity to do
so
eventually the story moves on to the
point where the police officer has
gotten enough evidence he believes
to arrest and convict songwo for murder
and kidnapping
he brings both songwoo and yoon bomb to
the police station
but yoon bum won't say a bad word about
songwo
he's the only witness they've got and he
won't say a thing
especially after seong-wo declares to
the police station that he and bomb
are a couple that he loves him
this declaration sends baum into a
euphoric tailspin
resulting in him agreeing with
everything sangwo says
refusing to cooperate with the police
and eventually the police dropping all
possible charges
even after songwoo tells him that he was
just lying to get the cops off of his
back
yoonbom holds on to the original
declaration of love
that's what he wants to remember and so
that's what he will remember
as the series progresses we get deeper
and deeper into the supremely
toxic relationship between these two men
it becomes clear if it wasn't already
that both are
mentally ill yoonbomb has severe
depression
anxiety and abandonment issues while
senwo is a narcissistic psychopath
he has a very high opinion of himself
and anyone who isn't him is basically
scum
tools to be used by him until they're no
longer useful to him
and that's what unbomb becomes to him a
tool
especially for sex these sex scenes are
violent disturbing and painful to read
it's honestly very hard to believe that
certain fans think that they were
written to be romantic
yoonbam begins to represent songwoo's
mother in more ways than one as well
not only does he care for songwoo in a
motherly way
but in a series of flashbacks we also
learn that sangwo's mother sexually
molested him as a child
and so his now regular sex with yoon
bomb is a continuation of the
relationship with his mother
this drawn connection between yoon bomb
and sangwo's mother
eventually becomes a source of anxiety
for him though
you see songwo's mother was actually the
one who killed his father
he didn't do it his mother did but in a
blatant act of gaslighting she convinced
her son that he killed him
in a fit of paranoia his mother decided
that sangwo needed to die as well
and so she tried killing him with the
very rat poison that yoon bomb attempted
to kill him with early on in the series
seong-wo eventually discovered this and
killed her
arguably in self-defense and so the
people he trusted most in his life
his mother and his father both betrayed
him in one way or another
and now near the end of the series he
fears that yoon bomb will do the same
thing
after an injury leaves him unable to
leave the house he's forced to rely on
yoonbomb to do the grocery shopping and
run errands
convinced that yoon bomb is either going
to run away
or kill him bum never does though
but the paranoia remains during this
time the
police officer who had been trying to
bring songwoo down has been having
more or less a mental breakdown but a
confluence of events gets him
back into the case leading into a
violent confrontation between himself
and songwa when songwa is restrained
he calls for yunbom to get the knife
that he dropped and kill the cop
to save him bomb gets the knife
but can't do it he lets it clatter to
the floor
song wow is shocked looks at bomb and
says
simply i don't need you anymore
the cop orders bomb to run away once out
in the pouring rain he stands outside
looking at the house that's been his
home and prison for god only knows how
long
inside the battle continues and thanks
to a gas stove and a lighter
an explosion rips through the building
yoonbom is taken to the hospital
where he recovers from his multiple
wounds when he gets out he goes in
search of sangwo
who last he'd heard was alive in another
hospital here we learned that sango is
dead
not from his injuries but by being
smothered by another patient she
couldn't
handle his mumbling through the bandages
day and night
all the time calling out bomb's name
the series ends with yoonbomb seeing who
he thinks is song while
even though he's dead and running into
traffic
to chase after him
[Music]
when it comes to doing an analysis of
killing stalking we're going to run into
some problems
what's the subtext that the author is
trying to get across
what are we intended to come away with
does it even matter
do the author's intentions matter how
much context is needed for killing
stalking
and what is meant to be just taken at
face value
i for one find it very unsettling that
it's perceived as romantic
not only by the shippers by the way but
also by
a great many people who read the comic
and do understand that it's toxic
alright so if it's not a romance what is
it it's a horror thriller
obviously this isn't even a
psychological thriller this is full-on
horror
song wow is closer to jigsaw than
hannibal lecter there are a few other
themes that
the work might be trying to talk about
as well treatment or dismissal of the
mentally ill
the dangers of a culture which thrives
on obsession this is coming from the
land of k-pop after all
and the negative effects of compulsory
military service though i can't speak to
the reality in south korea
in north america mental illness is
absolutely treated as something for
which you
might see a psychologist a handful of
times where you'll eventually be put on
meds and never checked in on again
and that's if your insurance even covers
it i have a pretty good job and it still
only covers two psych visits a year
the mental wellness institution as a
whole generally doesn't much care about
you
yoonbom gets the overarching diagnosis
of borderline personality disorder
because he obsesses over people and then
he's just tossed out into the street
it really resonates with how i see the
system failing people
with mental illness in the real world
every single day
not to mention that in spite of his
history of mental illness he is drafted
for service in the korean military
because instead of treating people and
offering them the strategies and coping
mechanisms they need
we're going to isolate them in an
environment that is built to withhold
special treatment
in order to foster an environment of
conformity at which point killing
stocking
asks a very strange question of the
reader
to discern where individual decisions
begin and where societal familial
conditioning ends
at what point is a toxic individual a
failure of a society at large
and at what point should we start
judging them
for their own actions
anytime we analyze a story that is at
all left open for interpretation
there are going to be people who
disagree with your take on it and just
yell
you just don't get it now i don't think
there actually are multiple ways of
looking at killing stalking
it's a horror story not a romance but a
lot of people are
coming away seeing it as a romance so
is there interpretation wrong
yes but let's pretend it's not let's
pretend
that this story's themes are vague and
look at it alongside some other works of
art that people disagree on
art is in the eye of the beholder after
all is killing stocking a
surface beauty and the b style romance
where the monster can change in the end
or is it as i believe an analysis of
trauma and abuse
granted there have been any number of
times when an audience especially an
academic one
falls into the trap of just assuming
that everything is deeper than it really
is
in fact in some cases people read into a
work of fiction to find layers
when there are none intended just to
justify their appreciation of it
but even when things aren't done to
deliberately troll
intellectuals there's a trend of
intellectuals
taking a body of work and saying well if
this play is deep
then they all must be deep like half of
shakespeare if not
more is that a hot take not not really
like come on
the man wrote almost 40 plays in 20
years you can't expect
every one of them to have a nuanced
insightful world vision
he had to put food on the table for him
and his troop of actors and his
boyfriend he was a businessman before he
was a creator
most of what he wrote was on commission
that doesn't mean that
hamlet or macbeth aren't excellent
expressions of literary subtlety
but there isn't much that's subtle about
titus andronicus
where the hero takes the two sons of the
villain bakes them into a pie and feeds
them to her
it's basically shakespeare's slasher
movie which
that's why it's my favorite shakespeare
play and the biggest fallacy of his
career was that romeo and juliet
arguably his most iconic work
wasn't meant to be a classic
like big shock time all those guys in
high school english who
gagged at the gratuitous romance in the
play who were
dismissed by the english teacher were
actually right
see aside from the fact that this is a
grotesque amount
of romance that chokes out what little
plot actually exists in romeo and juliet
there are a number of dated cultural
contexts that highlight that this
is a relationship shakespeare would have
considered toxic
taking this into consideration it
becomes a cautionary tale
juliet referring to her love as being in
excess was a key feature
elizabethan england was stuck in a bit
of an austerity kick
where modernity and temperance were
strongly valued anything in excess
was seen as dysfunctional so the fact
that they both die at the end
really should have been a tip-off
shakespeare was probably thinking
the fact that their affair leads to both
of their deaths
should tell audiences that this is a bad
nobody's going to find death romantic
romeo and juliet therefore should not be
viewed as a romance but a satire
a parody of romance and romantic plays
i'm sure most people are more accustomed
to hearing about satire and parody when
it's
comedic which it is much easier to make
a clear thematic satire when it comes to
comedy
but satire is just a matter of pushing a
medium into the territory of the
carnivalesque
actions decisions reactions and elements
of design
and theme are so absurd that they reach
a point where it's impossible to take
them seriously
at least that's the idea satire is
usually comedy because if you're trying
to defame the nazis
it's easy to do so by making them look
like fools because you're simply taking
elements of how they already were
foolish in history
and amplifying it sometimes you can get
away with being honest in comedic satire
because the events that you were making
fun of
really were that ridiculous and
sometimes you have to tone it back or
people will think it's too over the top
stalin is invincible the force of [ __ ]
death back to the salt mine what's
happening
this is impossible and
maybe he's appointing his successor a
drawback to this
is that it's not always entirely clear
what is being made fun of this
is especially true in absurdist or
ironic depictions
is south park making fun of al gore
claiming that climate change is an
imaginary issue
or are they doing the opposite and
making fun of the people who
dismiss al gore saying that what they
imagine
al gore acts like isn't the reality of
how he portrays himself
and for reference south park's defenders
often do use the you just don't get a
defense when it comes to criticisms
directed at them
and they do tend to cross the line every
once in a while but this video is not
about south park
satire can also be dramatic though this
is
less common in modern media however
here we take culture and history and
rather than amplify the ridiculousness
take elements of violence bigotry
romance political ideology or even
culture itself
and bring the real life absurdity to the
audience's attention
the hope is for these themes to be read
as societal problems
a downside to this is that the line
between satire and reverence is
very narrow was stanley kubrick
presenting a horrifying depiction of
psychological conditioning trauma and
groupthink as it exists in the american
military and full metal jacket
i mean that's probably how he intended
it
but if you're an individual who values
elements of hyper masculinity
pro-violence and american imperialism
then you can just as easily see full
metal jacket as a shining testament to
an era when men were men
and weak undeserving men simply snapped
under the pressure in which
real men persisted as for what kubrick
intended
it's a little bit difficult to gauge he
offered phenomenally little information
about what his films were intended to
really be about
he liked to see them as a litmus test
which had more to say about the observer
depending upon how they would interpret
the film this is epitomized in his final
film
eyes wide shut which is about
something even when some of us think
there's no way
someone could have positive
interpretations of a work there is
someone who's going to read a clockwork
orange and think
yeah that's what masculinity means and
the government is the villain
because they they brainwashed him out of
his individuality
but in instances like kubrick's nuanced
vagueness
can we really use intention as a means
to
analyze works of fiction all this is to
say that i'm taking an analysis of
killing stalking very seriously
and even though my focus is as you might
have been able to tell
the audience's attitudes about it it's
important to know that
people can see art
in very different ways
one of the most significant philosophies
of art criticism comes from jean
boulliard
he argues in very generalized terms that
we
as a society have lost or are losing our
ability to tell the difference between
artifice and nature meaning
we can't really see a clear difference
between a performance and an earnest
state of being
what is real and what is counterfeit and
to what degree can we tell the
difference between the two
this is more in the vein of say being
unsure if the kardashians or errant
airheads
or whether this role is emphasized in
their programming in order to fulfill a
brand which
they use to solidify and expand their
platform
hey bestie this is especially true in
instances of long-spanning performance
art
as you could see among lady gaga cher
madonna or
even people like ann coulter donald
trump where the performance ends and the
individual begins and how much they
overlap are both
areas of debate an extrapolation of this
in the situation of killing stalking is
whether this is
intended to be a work of fiction which
plays upon and subverts romantic tropes
or
whether it's earnestly romantic when i
read it i read a very conflicted horror
story where neither of the main
characters were particularly meant to be
admirable
and where the element of romance was
there to highlight the insidiousness of
song woo
and the dysfunction of yoonbom as this
is a visual novel
meaning that the visual language is just
as important as the written text
there are a number of instances in the
comic itself specific panels
which can be removed and shown as
romantic instances of cuddling hugging
and kissing
are all present granted this is usually
before or after someone is tortured or
killed
or buried very romantic but does this
ability to separate these romantic
elements form a kind of phantom
plot in which the perceived romance runs
parallel to the actual depiction of the
toxic relationship
this could encourage someone to against
all reason
deliberately read romance into
situations where there is none
this is to say nothing of the special
issues for christmas
and thanksgiving whereas songwoo and
yoonbomb are depicted romantically or
erotically and without any torture
except for the people that they are
murdering and disposing of but they're
doing it together
on one hand is this a matter of
depicting a relationship at peak
toxicity
or is this exploiting a will they want a
romantic format
to keep audiences tuned in for 67 issues
because in spite of these seemingly
apparent layers
and the seemingly self-aware damnation
of its own content
killing stalking has acquired a certain
following in spite of the obvious or
what seems to me to be obvious messaging
about how
damaging and traumatic this relationship
is if you can even call it a
relationship which i don't
there is a swath of fans who lean toward
the will they won't they take
that this whole journey is a progressing
romance leading to seong wo
finally giving in to his feelings
stopping hurting yoon bomb
and then running off together with him
the torture has been
fantasized as a kind of love you to
death kind of thing
like songwa is so in love with yoonbomb
but the only way
he knows how to express affection is
through abuse
all sangwo needs to do is learn how to
properly
express his feelings of affection and
then everything will just turn out fine
being honest the implication throughout
the series is that seong-wo keeps
yoonbomb alive because he reminds him of
a maternal figure
which you'd think would lead an audience
to immediately connect him with norman
bates
well a boy's best friend is his mother
but they don't but maybe these people
haven't watched as many movies as i have
or
even the tv show bates motel so which is
it gore porn
or star-crossed romance or a character
study of
stockholm syndrome we could look to the
author
who in front of every issue plasters a
big old disclaimer
that very explicitly says that this is a
depiction of abuse and dysfunction
which you know that must clear it up
right
done deal maybe because we're also in an
era of joanne
karen rowling prefacing everything with
i love the transsexuals but
this tactic is called dog whistling
which is doing or saying something
hateful but in a vague enough way that
you can credibly say
that's not what i was actually saying
people who are racist and homophobic and
transphobic will be emboldened by the
message
and people who are indifferent or
centrist
will take it for granted as a joke and
even they themselves dismiss the haters
as social justice snowflakes in periods
past it was considered a point of pride
to clearly advocate for your beliefs
but these were also eras which had a
very clear hierarchy of privilege
and there was no shame in supporting the
hierarchy
today where the majority of progress is
dedicated to dismantling these systems
of privilege and oppression
there is an awareness of the right thing
to say
even if you don't necessarily believe it
indicative of the
i'm not racist but line that always is
followed by something racist
people want to be seen as
progressive or at least on the right
side while still holding on to
privileged attitudes and cultural
stereotypes
even bigoted people know how to properly
carry themselves in order to advance
their platform and not do or say
anything
too extreme in public
there's a reason the kkk wears hoods
much
in the same way that song wo knows how
to act like a normal person in society
so that he can blend in despite being
a crazed psychopath
i wasn't just comparing jk rowling to a
psychopath what are you talking about
so the series is written by a korean
author and illustrator who goes by the
name of coogie
for whom there is next to no information
available online
i did manage to track down and translate
an interview from 2018
where she was asked if there was any
sincere feeling of love between the two
lead characters
she responded it's up to the readers to
decide
if i have to decide then no okay but
it's a bit
odd that on every site where this is
available for purchase
or even for just reading it's listed as
a romance
on amazon it's even classified as lgbt
plus
marriage comedy she's also said that the
book should be categorized as a
psychological horror story and not
a romance of any kind though to be fair
if you visit her twitter the page is
mostly populated with romantic fan art
of yoon baum and songwell so where she
really stands on how the series should
be read
might be up for interpretation but let's
take her at her word in the 2018
interview
that she does not intend on this being
read as a romance in any way
then why does the fan base read it like
one and why
when i did my initial google search was
it so often described
as a psychological romance romantic
thriller dark romance
well there's two answers to that
question one
the fans are doing the categorizing two
publishing yes the archaic slowly dying
traditional publishing industry
which has real difficulty when it comes
to queer themes and books
especially involving men you see when a
book is being published
the publisher has to decide what kind of
categories the book falls into so that
it can be marketed to the proper
audience
and when a book comes around with a gay
lead character who doesn't have a
romance in the plot
they have no idea how to classify it
women don't want to read a book about a
gay
straight men certainly don't want to
read a book about a gay gays barely want
to read a book about a gay
but a gay romance well according to
market research women eat that
up so much so that it makes up for the
loss of a potential straight male
audience
gay readers don't really factor into the
thought process which is
a problem in itself and something i'll
cover in another video
and so we come to killing stalking is
this a romance
no even the author says so but are there
romantic elements
not really but could there maybe be
perceived romantic elements if you
tilt it the right way and read it under
a quarter moon during february of a leap
year
maybe sold into the m m romance category
you go
they don't just have to pick one
category though which is why
the much more applicable psychological
thriller and horror tags also get put on
there
so when readers are self-categorizing
the book online it becomes
a psychological romance romantic
thriller dark romance
so from the synopsis of killing stalking
i think it's pretty clear that both
characters yoon bom
and sangwo are not mentally stable
but in two very different directions
both of their lives have become
disasters since they were children with
abusive caregivers in both cases
that's why there is no romance in this
story
there's no actual love between these two
characters
yoon bomb thinks he loves song wou
because seongwoo rescued him from being
assaulted something that no one else has
ever done
not even his grandmother who seemingly
cared for him but
looked the other way when her son baum's
uncle would beat and rape him
and sengwo does not love yoonbomb
he uses him for sexual pleasure and his
own emotional support but that's it
but you wouldn't think that by going
over the comments online
many not all but many of the fans of
this series would have you believe that
it's a beauty and the beast style love
story
a tale as old as time that it's about
two lost souls finding each other and
helping each other become a whole
people if i've not yet made myself clear
that is not what this is about so why do
they think that
well yoon bomb isn't immediately killed
by song woah
unlike his other victims therefore this
must mean that he's special
this must mean that songwo cares for him
whether or not he's good at showing it
bomb should certainly stand out amongst
seong-wo's victims but that's because
he's a man
sangwo is a misogynistic sexual sadist
getting joy from torturing and murdering
women and because he is psychologically
damaged he essentially kills his mother
over and over and over and over again by
murdering women and then goes home to
his mother in the form of yoonbum
who he then assaults mentally and
physically just like his own father did
to his own mother
sometimes he has moments of clarity
where he realizes what he's doing
but they don't last long sometimes he'll
even beg yoonbomb to not leave him
breaking down into tears but this is
simply emotional manipulation
he's using bomb's abandonment issues to
manipulate him into staying
we know this because when bomb drops the
knife during the final altercation
seong-wo tells him he doesn't need him
anymore lashing out at him
and calling him down to the lowest so
what about yoonbom
he grew up being neglected by everyone
except his sexual abuse of uncle
who would tell him that he was gross
disgusting
especially after raping him he was
socially awkward making it near
impossible for him to make friends
when people would start to get close to
him they'd be put off by how shy and
awkward he was
so when sangwo hugs him kisses him says
he loves him
says he'll be together forever even
after crippling him choking him hanging
him and
cutting his throat just just deep enough
so that he won't bleed out
yoonbomb looks past the trauma and abuse
and just sees the affection
because it's the only affection he's
ever gotten from anyone
so he latches on to it even after he
knows that song wo is dead he can't let
go
and despite the fact that song won't
never shows any unconditional kindness
to bomb
even insulting him when doing something
that could be characterized as kind
some readers still look for a love story
they've taken an incredibly horrifying
twisted story of trauma and abuse
and twisted it further so that they can
ship it
they don't see it as a horror story and
hope for bomb to escape his monstrous
captor
they hope for songwo to declare his
undying love
they don't want sangwo to get arrested
for being a serial killer
they want the pair to ride off into the
sunset
this isn't two sad broken people who
have found each other and made each
other whole
this is a twisted psychopath
manipulating a poor lonely boy into
being his puppet
this is a story that warns us about the
effects of long-term abuse on two very
different people
how sometimes lifelong trauma is
inescapable without a support system
killing stalking in my opinion is an
amazing psychological horror story
one that kept me swiping through those
pages unable to put it down
hoping that yoon bomb would escape that
seongwel would be caught that yoon bomb
would be rescued and
given the help that he needs and yet
there are masses of fans out there
who want them to get back together in
the end who flame the author online when
she ended the series with songwoo dead
the monster dies in the end he doesn't
transform into a handsome prince because
he always was
one but not all the glitters is gold
the fact that song wo looks like the man
of your dreams
is meant to show you that even the
person you think is perfect
could be a monster underneath to watch
out for yourself to not
let yourself get trapped into this kind
of traumatic relationship
the author has said in no uncertain
terms that she did not
intend this to be read as romantic
despite her twitter feed
so why in seven hells
are people especially teenage girls
reading this as a romance
well
because they've been raised too
no beauty and the beast is not about
stockholm syndrome it's about a woman
who is forced into a castle and has to
work at making the monster she shares it
with
into a respectable human being for her
own sake
the original french folk tale functioned
as a way to ease young women into
accepting marriage arrangements
especially those in upper classes where
their husbands were
usually the shining exemplars of wealthy
male privilege to the women
betrothed this seemed to be like an
awful proposition
and to ease them into it there needed to
be some kind of device that told them
that it gets better
you know so they wouldn't kill
themselves even if it was an errant lie
that sounds familiar so it's not like
the idea that a woman can change a man
is new
culture has been placing the onus on
women to be the active force in taking
control of men's behavior for
all of christianized european history if
not longer and it's from this beauty and
the beast
attitude that we get the idea that all a
woman needs to change her monstrous
romantic partner is a little elbow
grease
and so we end up here with killing
stalking which is neither an arranged
marriage nor a heterosexual coupling
very 21st century at which point we are
at this weird junction where we're kind
of
pulled between seven different thought
processes about
cultural attitudes towards
representation romance gay men
femininity femininity in men
art criticism attitudes around common
sense the zeitgeist fandom social
connectivity and isolation mental health
social
possibility
nobody should need to do this nobody
nobody should need to look at killing
stalking and say
well we need to know if the borderline
personality diagnosis was an
accurate one to say with confidence
whether the author meant for this to be
read as erotic or not no
sangwo kills people he literally kills
people and not in a dark avenger
punisher kind of way he takes joy in
murdering people for fun
full stop and you and bob he's not
in love with song woo he just can't tell
the difference between love and abuse
if you read this and your first instinct
is to put these two
[ __ ] up people together for life there
is a problem
there is a problem with you there's a
problem with our
culture i know from reading the comments
of killing stocking tick tock
compilations which are almost as
unsettling as the source material that a
lot
of the reader base are young women like
middle school
they talk about reading it in class
hiding it from their teachers
even if you have experimented with
dating you have such a
narrow concept of what it means to
actually be in a relationship at that
age
you have no idea what functional
relationship even means
and trust me a lot of older people don't
know either this is not just an abusive
relationship
this is an abusive relationship engaging
in
a carnival of over-the-top violence
gaslighting manipulation and rape
i am so unsettled thinking about how our
society
is presenting a young generation with
such a twisted idea of romance
to the point where there is a shipping
community built around these two
[ __ ] because this isn't just killing
stalking
this didn't come out of nowhere it
wasn't straight from beauty and the
beast this
the pro-romance killing stalking fandom
is just the next logical step in the
evolution
of romanticizing abuse especially when
you've got twilight where edward and
bella's relationship ticks off
every single qualification of an abusive
relationship as qualified by social
workers
and still there is this paining over the
protagonists like
this is a they're going to make it after
all love story about making things work
even if your parents in society don't
like it
don't even get me started on 50 shades
of grey it was hyped up as this
racy sexy over-the-top intense sexual
romp through bdsm
and then i read it not knowing what the
hell the hype was about
because i'd read anne rice's sleeping
beauty series in junior high
maybe a little too young but i was
mature for my age so in 50 shades women
kind of swoon over christian grey
even though he's obsessively controlling
anastasia he violates safe words meddles
in her personal life
and oversteps boundaries regularly and
the fans are all like
oh i invade my privacy heart or daddy
then you get things like
phantom of the opera which you know a
lot of
people read into the fact that the
phantom named eric is literally a psycho
who murders people and tries to lock up
his love interest christine
in a basement but in spite of this
you still get fans who drone on about
how christine was so dumb not to choose
eric because
eric was just so rally sexual
and overpowering and oh he really does
care underneath it all he threatened to
kill her oh but maybe he's good
i read killing stalking as
an honest interpretation of these tropes
which is a hell of a thing to do
subverting toxic literary tropes by
confronting them with the reality of how
they function
in real life the only difference is that
the author doesn't try to force a
romance into the text even if a huge
portion of her fans think that she
ruined the ending by probably killing
off the serial killer which is why they
fill her twitter timeline with fan art
of their preferred ending of these two
characters
christmases family reunions vacations
song wow a serial killer who killed
women to reenact killing his mother
over and over and over again finally
getting in touch with his feelings
realizing that he was gay all along and
taking it upon himself to cater to yoon
bomb's emotional needs
because no he's not gay it is stated in
the text and the author has stated he is
not gay he is a straight man who is
using yoonbomb
as a device for to fulfill his needs
and then the months that yoon bombs
spent locked in song most house and
basement with broken ankles
it's just a story to tell their adopted
kids
but you know christian gray learns to
share the power dynamic and even sub for
anastasia in the end
and bella eventually gains the ability
to protect herself and thus
does not require edward to be so
obsessive belle's beast
turns into a man who made a whole
generation of people realize they
preferred furries eric the phantom
finally does learn to empathize with
someone else's needs and
lets christine go kind of not really
there's a sequel called love never dies
don't watch it at which point it occurs
to me that it wasn't the romance in the
story that the fans fetishize
but the possibility of song wow changing
and becoming romantic
it's this yearning obsession for
redemption arc that the fans want
it's not even that the fandom is
choosing to overlook the abuse
and the violence and the murder the
fandom embraces all of this
it's just a part of the bumpy road on
the way to love
this is songwoo's journey this is
songwoo's redemption this is songwoo's
story
even though it's not the story is
explicitly framed from yoonbomb's point
of view and it's his
emotions and struggles that drive the
plot sangwo at best
is an obstruction but should it be that
surprising that audiences are drawn to a
character who is depicted to be
attractive
and nearly every review of the book
calls to attention just how hot he is i
mean doesn't everyone want to be with
someone who's hot
what's a little character flaw like
psychopathy and murder
when you're sexy all of the fandom is
focused less around yoonbomb's
experience and more about how songwell
looks which a crowd of girls fawning
over attractive serial killers pleading
for his innocence isn't new
i find it weird that this audience is
simultaneously dismissive of yoon bomb
as a character
while at the same time fits into the
category of girls who fetishize gay
relationships
what's the thought process here are a
bunch of women
looking at a submissive gay man as a
cipher
their entry way into this relationship
or have they just kind of moved past the
sadness of brokeback mountain and
the yearning of love simon and they need
something a bit more
spicy for their gays now
all of this makes me wonder
why did it need to be gay in the first
place was there anything said in this
comic that couldn't have been
conveyed if yoonbomb was a woman or even
if sangwo was a woman
were the sex scenes actually necessary
did they
fulfill a pivotal use in driving the
plot
character yes but were so many of them
necessary
maybe if yoon bomb was a woman the
author would have been more
sparing in their use of physical abuse
maybe it would have hit too close to
home
but by making bum a man it allows a
layer of disconnect
and all the major plot beats worth
talking about don't seem to include
any elements of sex whatsoever and it's
these sexual moments that the fans latch
onto and say
yes the romance is real song wow just
needs a chance to open up
which even though the author won
literary awards
in the category of horror thriller it
did go on to be
categorized as a romance did people
pick it up expecting a romance and read
into it
or would they have seen that from the
very beginning
textually it does draw a thin line
between
teasing unbomb with a romance and
teasing the audience
the latter of which is not okay and i'm
not trying to say whether this should or
should not have been made because all
art has a place
there is a context for every piece of
earth that can add value to our world
both for enriching our culture conveying
a message about the world we live in
or even acting as a confrontation
between what we believe
about our culture and what the reality
of that culture is
killing stalking has a lot of
interesting nuanced
layered and poignant things to say that
make it
work as a horror story and stories like
it are actually often enjoyed by people
who have suffered abuse
a way for them to see that they're not
alone in their trauma
survivors of abuse can often feel very
isolated so seeing someone
who has been hurt like them in fiction
can be very cathartic
but all of these things are being
overshadowed by how a fetishistically
appropriative audience
has turned it into a romance novel and
this is concerning to me
not just about how these people read the
media they consume
but also if they might think that this
type of relationship
is normal do they have the ability to
understand
when they are in an abusive relationship
are they going to do the right things
and confront their friends when they're
in an abusive relationship
or are they going to push through and
encourage others to do so in the
hope that something beautiful will
blossom out of the trauma
or are they completely aware of what is
safe and acceptable
for them but their ideas are
different for queer people as we in real
life
progress more and more towards sexual
tolerance and acceptance of safe sexual
practices in kink
s m and role play are we challenging
fiction to raise the bar
as we have fewer real-life applications
of forbidden
love are we as a culture raised on
folklore about enduring abuse for
romance
increasing the amount of abuse that must
be sustained to achieve
true love we need to be more open to
discussing abuse
so listening to those who have been
abused so that they might feel
comfortable telling their stories
so that people can better judge what is
healthy and what is not
what is safe and what is dangerous
we need to make it safe for the victims
of abuse
to feel safe otherwise people and not
just young people will continue to think
that the relationship between songwoo
and yoon bomb is true love
that enduring trauma is fine for the
right person that it's a necessary part
of falling in love
abuse is never a necessary part of
falling in love
and so in the description of this video
i've listed resources and links for
anyone who might feel that they've
become
trapped in an abusive relationship abuse
is not love
trauma is not romance
please do not let they can change
trap you in an unhealthy or dangerous
situation
get away while you can
because a happily ever after
should never involve pain
you